you got to make sure you're including
the keywords you got to make sure it
flows it's appealing it's come
conversational and then from there
so I'm Neil Patel thank you for giving
up your time this afternoon but I
understand it's this morning where you
are that's right thank you for having me
for the audience who haven't met you yet
which is crazy if they haven't seen you
online or in marketing in some way shape
or form do you want to do a little bit
of an introduction for yourself
sure I blog at neilpatel.com where I
blog about marketing sometimes
entrepreneurship
um other than that I have an ad agency
called Neil Patel digital named after me
funny enough
um where we help companies grow their
traffic and their revenue online and I
have a marketing software called
ubersuggest yeah what do you think have
been the biggest shifts in marketing
yeah the the
big shift that we're seeing right now in
um marketing and keep in mind I was
doing marketing before 2003 but 2003 is
when I really got into it right
marketing changes super fast
in 2001 if you put the key word that
you're trying to rank for in the title
of the page used to rank pretty easily
by 2003 if you did that it wasn't as
easy
and that was the speed then now of
course it changes much more rapidly uh
there's been many more algorithm updates
at least when it comes to SEO there's
many more platforms from Facebook you
know Myspace was back in the day it was
popular but not a Facebook Instagram
everyone's talking about uh uh but the
list goes on and on so things changed uh
times change
and the big thing that I ended up
learning is whatever you think is
working isn't going to work forever in
the long run so you better learn how to
adapt and keep learning and that's
that's one of the best things you can
have if you want to do well in marketing
is the ability to learn and continually
get better
it's a principle for business though
isn't it really the ability to be able
to change and Inspire the team and
people on your team really don't like
change has been one of the big things
that I've seen but it's a natural
progression you have to completely
continually keep pivoting and changing
as Journeys go and the business Grows
Right exactly
yeah so I've heard a saying that the
2010s for example in in social media
were very much a case of building
audience building communities building
following which now kind of moving into
the 2020s it's all pretty much all about
ads you know there's everyone's Got 5
000 friends there's groups and
communities with hundreds of thousands
of people in them Facebook's got to
monetize other social media platforms
have got to monetize so kind of the
personal brand element is becoming
harder to build organically
and you must be using ads what's kind of
your thoughts behind that
yeah totally agree at ads funny enough
won't go away they want to continually
charge you for more reach that's how
these platforms make money uh when you
look at the organic reach it's harder
and harder but here's the thing there's
new platforms always come around and
make it easier to get reach for example
I was on clubhouse literally right
before we ended up doing this uh podcast
interview okay and I started with a
hundred and something followers I joined
a room talked for literally 30 seconds
and now I have 400 and something
followers Now is it going to be that
easy to gain followers on clubhouse if
they maintain their popularity and their
growth rate within a year or two of
course not right is it easy to gain
popularity on LinkedIn right now yes why
less than three percent or roughly
around three percent of the people on
LinkedIn only post content which means
majority of the people don't post
content they want more people to post
content now if Lincoln had 30 percent of
their people posting content do you
think you would gain as much followers
and reach when you post your content of
course not and why because there's
competition they're already getting what
they're looking for
so these platforms will encourage you
really early on and give you what you
want but the moment they start doing
well enough where they don't need it as
much then they turn the little knobs and
throttles and that way they start making
more money but it doesn't mean you can't
grow in marketing you just got to get
creative and that's why in marketing I
think one of the best skill sets is
creativity yeah sure you can read and
learn but if you can't think outside the
box especially when everyone else is you
know doing the same thing you're not
going to do well there's so many people
with more money more employees more
resources you got to really think
outside the box to win yeah that's why
quite a lot of people have made it with
the likes of tick tock and things like
that haven't they because they've been
able to do things I've seen people in
the mortgage space which is my
background you know who are doing crazy
things from from a marketing perspective
that you just wouldn't put such a
professional industry with the stuff
they're doing but their pages and
profiles are blowing up because of it
exactly so and what's funny is to say I
know real estate agents who have done
well purely because of LinkedIn uh one
of my buddies Todd who's in the mortgage
industry has gone quite a few customers
from LinkedIn as well who'd ever thought
though right but you can end up getting
business from these sites and these
platforms if you participate
yeah that's exactly it is and you only
get out what you put in effectively from
doing it and I think that's one of the
things that dawned on me when you said
earlier right at the very beginning you
said you set up the website
neilpatel.com
you know one of my first lessons because
I in my first 10 years of business I
basically did know marketing which is
why I'm so passionate about it now I
kind of my journey in marketing started
2016. but one of the first lessons I
learned was like don't name things after
you do not call your business Gary dash
mortgage broker do not call your
business you know you need a bigger
brand because otherwise it only just
comes about you so whatever you want you
to go that route
so what was funny is when I first
started off in the marketing realm right
forget my first business so let's go
into the marketing room because that's
when I really started yeah when I looked
at that my first Ad Agency was called
ACS uh got crushed during 2008 uh during
the uh financial crisis right the
mortgage industry at least in the US I
don't know how it was in uh on the other
side of the pond horrendous
so when you think about it from that
perspective right that business was gone
had some software companies
neilpatel.com was a place for me to just
blog about marketing I didn't expect my
brand to grow I was just blogging on
marketing because it was fun as my
passion has nothing to do with business
eventually my team's like we should go
and create an ad agency right one of my
buddies Mike who's now my co-founder and
I was like yeah that's a lot of work I
don't know and we're thinking about
names and what was funny is he's like
look everyone's trying to pay you for
marketing they're not trying to pay me
they're not trying to pay someone else
because you have such a loyal blog
audience at that time my blog was
getting maybe like four or five hundred
thousand visits he's like you should and
we should end up naming the Ad Agency
after you
and that's how it ended up starting and
then we took it from there now here's
the issue when you name something after
yourself
Tony Robbins is always so big LeBron
James is always so big Ronaldo is always
so big these brands are not as big as
Apple Google Amazon and the list goes on
and on
I am stuck in that boat my brand is
nowhere near the size of Ronaldo LeBron
James or any of those people
and so my personal brand is much smaller
which means my total amount of money
that I can probably make is going to be
smaller as well but when Tony Robbins
passes away and I hope he never does
amazing guy I don't know him but great
content
and we all eventually pass away at least
currently there's not technology to keep
us around longer
what do you think is going to happen to
the Tony Robbins brand
it may not go to zero but it's not going
to be worth the same compared to when
Tony Robbins was around and that's the
issue that we all end up facing that
people don't really think about in which
look if you have a brand around yourself
it's harder to make it Everlasting and
it might be sure there's been some
people that have created a brand that'll
last a very long time like Ogilvy he
passed away known as one of the best ad
uh execs out there uh there's people
like Michael Jordan when he passes away
I think his shoes will still be super
popular
but I think that list is really tiny
and if I recommended people to go with a
brand I would tell them don't build a
personal brand people don't want to buy
Personal Brands then you have this key
man syndrome in which if something
happens to you the business
goes away
yeah that's the that was the message
that I kind of took and it's that three
elements of Brands isn't it you have the
personal brand which is you Neil Patel
but if you had the business brand it can
live on after you and then you can
create product Brands underneath the
different businesses or the business as
such so have you not given any thought
to releasing a business brand and kind
of slowly pivoting or do you think it
would have too much of a hindrance
we think it would impact the business in
a negative way so we took the Ad Agency
we changed it from Neil Patel digital to
NP digital right because there's the
initials not everyone will know what's
around me but what's funny is when our
sales reps still talk to people they say
they want to hire Neil
so that doesn't help uh we created a
software product called ubersuggest
um and that product not named after me
so it's Standalone which is great and
we'll continue to spin off more like
that but it's just a long journey
yeah and when you when you started your
Ad Agency you said you've been blogging
and you built that blog up and that
enabled you you know your team wanted to
move into into an ad agency did your Ad
Agency initially only deal with blogs
and SEO or did it kind of go out wider
and further than that
we only ended up starting with SEO and
then we added uh paid media So Paid
advertising now we'll do things like cro
and affiliate marketing and email
marketing and the list goes on and on
but eventually we expanded to many areas
we don't do all of them but we do the
majority
so that breeds I'm glad you said that
because that nicely leads into my next
question which is how important do you
think from a marketing perspective it is
to start with a niche
I think it's important it's marketing is
super competitive if you don't start
with the niche you're going to be
screwed so I think you need a niche down
and then after you do well in that Niche
then expand the start smaller there's
there's nothing wrong with starting
small and then growing from there
yeah I think that's a business principle
that applies out you know I started in
self-employed mortgages and solely but
surely we Branch it out branched the
business out over time and that's now
led into coaching and mentoring and
teaching and training and courses Etc
and you just I think that wouldn't have
happened if I'd have been a generalist
and not focused on one particular area
because in a smaller Pond you you can be
a bigger fish potentially can't you
that's the uh
yeah so what's um what's one of the must
do things that you think people need to
do now in marketing then
be consistent everyone expects results
right away so there's two things right
one yet to be consistent and two you
have to be persistent so persistence you
keep pushing consistent is you have to
do it on a regular basis so if you're
blogging bug once twice three times a
week you're participating on social
media you got to participate multiple
times a week but you got to do that for
a long period of time it used to be
where you can be popular or grow your
traffic within three to six months or
one month or even a year but now it
really takes two to three years to
really see the results and that's where
most people fail it's not that they're
doing the wrong things they just don't
do it long enough
yeah I think the the blogging side I
don't know what it's like here in the UK
in you know in the US or wherever but in
the UK certainly the thing that I've
heard is it's almost impossible to rank
for SEO
they say that in the UK they say that in
the US they say that in Australia it's
still very possible to rank just not in
the short run if you want results within
three months you're not going to do that
well if you have an old established site
sure you can but generally speaking you
need to give it a year to two years and
you can do well even in the UK but the
problem is most people don't want to
invest the time and the money for that
long before the few results because
you're burning the money and you're not
really generating any Revenue in the
short run but that also creates an
amazing mode because most people aren't
willing to invest the money
oh yeah everyone's looking for the quick
win aren't they and as you mentioned
three years so you mentioned they're two
to three blogs a week which is going to
be 100 to 150 blogs over the course of
two three years that's like that's some
commitment to keep doing for the
consistency and the Persistence of it
yeah and it's expensive if you're not
writing it yourself let's say you're
paying a hundred pounds per blog post
and you do three a week right you're
looking at over 150 uh a year yeah it
adds up very very fast over three years
that's a ton of money
so how do how do people you know who are
starting out and want to write content
you know I'm a massive video fan I love
being on video it's so much easier you
can equally create the written and the
audio out of it so it's a massive
leverage of time but for those who don't
want to put their faces on video how can
they how can they even try to dominate
in terms of they just literally got to
write three blogs a week is there a
perfect length or a place to post them
is it website now is it linked In
Articles is it medium you know how do
you focus that yeah so the length is
whatever a link provides the reader with
everything they need to know so fast
creating article on self-employed
mortgages I will talk about everything
how to qualify what sizes are easy what
do you need a show to qualify what banks
offer these mortgages I'm making this up
because I don't know much about
self-employment period
um so the more detailed you get the
better for example we have something in
the US called credit score I don't know
if there's a credit score in the UK yeah
yeah if you didn't talk about the credit
score in the article it wouldn't be as
thorough right so if you talked about
credit score which you should
it'll be a little bit longer so don't
think about the article as in how long
it should be think about did I cover
everything that needs to be covered
the second thing is it needs to be fresh
and updated so after six months is old
are some of the things Antiquated that
need to be updated if so you need to
keep updating the third thing is is when
you have that content you want to keep
it on your blog first but share it on
the Social Web and a week later by all
means repost it on medium uh LinkedIn
post uh Facebook post and the list can
go on and on there's nothing wrong with
repurposing and duplicating the content
because it just gives more awareness to
you
yeah I see I see and that's probably the
same do you think it's okay from like my
perspective then
if I were to do a video and then get
that video transcribed by rev.com you
know he's going to need some editing to
make it keyword rich or can you just
kind of make it better English because
my spoken English isn't particularly
good
um and then you know put it up and job
done or do you have to do a bit more to
it than that
yeah you have to do it a little bit more
to that I do the same thing so we'll
create videos funny enough we use
rev.com as well transcribe it they're
pretty fast uh you still got to modify
it because even the transcriptions
aren't perfect and even if they modify
even even if their transcriptions were
perfect the way we talk doesn't always
work out in a paragraph form for blog
content you got to modify it you got to
make sure you're including the keywords
you got to make sure it flows it's
appealing it's conversational and then
from there you can post it up but it
typically requires a lot of editing what
we've seen is
there's nothing wrong with that process
but sometimes it's just easier to write
a blog post from scratch and not
transcribe their videos
yeah yeah that's very true maybe start
with bullet points and then expand it
out from there perhaps for using you
know I often do my videos with bullet
points so maybe it's just taking them
from there and then writing the blogs
afterwards that's actually not a bad
idea as I uh I mean it's a bit more
effort but as you say it'll probably
read and probably write a little read a
little bit better and it'll perform much
better too in the long run yeah yeah
yeah interesting so I'm interested we've
covered a bit around marketing and I
know that's your core topic but I'm
always interested this is aimed at
business owners
um we get a lot of self-employed
entrepreneurs and you know who listen to
this from start up through to scale up
and I think how many people are on your
team right now
I don't know globally I had to guess
maybe 400 so 400 so that's so from that
thing I honestly don't know so one of
the things I'm always interested in I
know I've seen your kids in your videos
before and you know you're a family man
and how do you how through the Journey
of getting to 400 people on your team
which most people listening to this lets
me face it they're never gonna have to
you know deal with businesses of that
size but how have you managed to
maintain a work-life balance through
that journey of you know going from what
was just you perhaps initially I would
assume and then the scale up phase
amazing managers and partners
that's really it I'm not the best
operator so uh my business partner Mike
he ends up dealing with all that and I'm
not good at that stuff he's the one who
hired pretty much almost all the people
as well right
so is it always when you're starting out
was it in your vision to get to the
scale and size that you are now or was
that more kind of Mike's Vision or it's
just happened organically over the time
that you've been doing it happen
organically neither him or I were like
yeah you know we don't care if we have
400 500 or a thousand or even 50 we care
for the people but we don't care about
the number
um you know we don't want to fire people
don't get me wrong on that end but when
we started we never had this Vision that
we want to have a thousand employees or
500 or 400. it's we want to create
amazing environment for all our team
members where they enjoy working we want
to create amazing results for our
customers where they're happy and we can
help them succeed but generally speaking
it just organically happened I think
it's too hard to plan out how many
people you want
um and typically if you can get more
done with less people the better off you
are
yeah and it definitely stems you know
you've got that passion for marketing
which is clearly evident and it's what's
Driven the business forward for such a
long period of time isn't it is without
that a passion front leading it and you
know someone operating it effectively as
you say in your operations manager then
it just never would have got to where it
was exactly yeah do you think it's um
has it been stressful for you over that
journey of going through it or do you
think that's mostly been carried by your
business partner
uh it's mainly through my business
partner I didn't have to deal with
literally anything
nice so what's yours so what's a typical
day then like for you in in terms of you
know coming up are you the ideas man and
doing all that side of it
uh I focus on the marketing traction you
know and going from there I spent a lot
of time with family but yeah I know and
then things are growing uh decently
during times like this what most people
don't realize is bigger you are the
harder it is to stay afloat right you
got more expenses more people business
may not grow as fast during times like
this which is fine you know I look at
things and there's way more people
struggling harder and more than me which
sucks
um I rather snug a little bit more and
make sure people have food on their uh
plates at night stuff like that but keep
in mind you know
size isn't always a good thing and the
reason I want to emphasize that and
especially in the mortgage industry you
see a lot of people are like I want a
massive team I want people dialing
getting me tons of leads and uh closing
tons of deals we have to remember when
you grow really large it also makes it
easier for you to potentially fail as
well yeah so what's next for uh for Neil
Patel then where's your brand and
business going
just continually grow or try to at least
hopefully I'm Gonna Knock on Wood a
little superstitious but we'll try to
grow and see what happens
yeah you're going to continue to keep
doing the uh the blogging do you do the
blogging yourself now or is that
leveraged out to somebody else blogging
is me uh my team updates 21 Old blog
posts to keep them fresh that they do I
don't have time to do 21 updates a week
but I write at least uh one post a week
crazy nice so in terms of uh if people
want to find out more about Neil Patel
or connect with you on socials what's
the best thing and where to go
neilpatel.com thanks very much indeed
now it's been really a pleasure to have
you on thanks for sharing your wisdoms
on marketing and business and I look
forward to watching more of you online
thanks for having